=item tag

The name of the tag that encloses the codeblock. This should be either
C<PRE> or C<P>.  This is case-insensitive. If tag is C<P>, this tells
the script to perform more post-processing. C<&nbsp;> entities are
inserted as well as C<< <br> >> html tags for linebreaks.

=back

=head1 NAME

WWW::PerlMonks::CodeBlock::HTML - PerlMonks code block HTML description.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a reference to how PerlMonks constructs HTML for code
blocks.  This helps me to remembers how to deconstruct, tidy up, and
reconstruct it.

=head1 PERLMONKS' CODE HTML

Perlmonks can format code blocks differently depending on the Display
settings set in your Display nodelet.  Code inside readmore tags also
have their own rules.  Perlmonks can also wrap code to line lengths.
All of the html tags have to be stripped and lines unwrapped to keep
Perl::Tidy from choking and failing.

=head2 Code Blocks

PM has code text of two different kinds.  Code blocks and inline code.
Code blocks have their C<< <tt> >> tags surrounded by C<< <span
class='codeblock'> >> tags.  Inline code does not.  We are only trying
to reformat the code blocks, not inline code.  This is handled in the
Greasemonkey userscript.

=head2 Assumptions

There is always a C<< <tt class="codetext"> >> inside the C<< <pre> >> or
C<<p>> tags as described below.  The code is inside the C<< <font> >>
tag which is inside the C<< <tt> >> tag if there is a font tag.

=head2 Quirks

There are C<< <font size="2"> >> tags everywhere.  Who knows what they
are for?  They don't seem to do anything except confuse Firefox's DOM
model.

=head2 Section-specific HTML

I first started examining the HTML of the "Seekers of Perl Wisdom".  I
found out later that some sections have slightly different formatting.

=head3 Code

Top-level posts in Code sections do not have C<< <div> >> or C<< <span> >>
tags enclosing the C<< <tt> >> codetext.  They are the same otherwise,
but these things are missing.

=head2 Display Settings

=head3 Large Code Font

PM's default behavior is to wrap code blocks with C<< <font size="-1">
>>.  This is inside the C<< <tt> >> tags.  If Large Code Font is
turned on these font tags are ommitted.  This logic is taken care of
by the Greasemonkey userscript.  The pmtidy.pl script is obvlivious to
this.  If C< <<font>> > tags are not removed from code they will be
treated as perlcode, highlighted, and encoded as HTML entities so that
the user will see the font tags displayed around the code.

=head3 Autowrap

Autowrap breaks lines using C<< <font
color="red"><b><u>&#173;</u></b></font> >>.  C<&#173;> is the html
entity for "small-hyphen".  This doesn't seem to display anything and
I'm not sure why it is there..?  The small hyphen has the hex value of
0xC2AD when decoded with
L<HTML::Entities|http://search.cpan.org/~gaas/HTML-Parser-3.56/lib/HTML/Entities.pm>.
It must be removed before processing with Perltidy.

Code blocks are enclosed in C<< <p class="code"> >> tags.  Linebreaks are
forced using C<< <br> >> tags.  &nbsp; spaces must be used for spaces.
You must alternate each "&nbsp; ", starting with 1 &nbsp;

 <p class="code">
  <span class="codeblock">
   <tt class="codetext">
    CODE
   </tt>
  </span>
  <span class="codeblock"><a href="...">...</a></span>
 </p>


=head3 Regular wordwrap (no Autowrap)

The default word wrapping breaks lines with C<< <font color="red">+</font> >>,
uses C<< <pre> >> tags for the topmost tag, and C<< <div> >> tags.

 <pre class="code">
  <div class="codeblock">
   <tt class="codetext">CODE</tt>
  </div>
  <div class=""><a href="...">...</a></span>
 </pre>

=head3 Disable wordwrap

There is no wordwrapping done at all, obviously.  Code tags are
enclosed in C<< <pre class="code"> >> tags and there are no C<< <br> >> tags
needed.

 <pre class="code">
  <div class="codeblock">
   <tt class="codetext">CODE</tt>
  </div>
  <div class=""><a href="...">...</a></span>
 </pre>

=head2 Readmore tags

Readmore tags override the above wordwrapping Display settings.  No
wordwrapping is performed.  Code is enclosed in C<< <pre class="code"> >>
tags, always.  There are no C<< <br> >>'s or C<&nbsp;>'s.

Font size still affects readmore tags and C<< <font size="-1"> >> may or
may not be in effect.

=head2 Summary

=head3 Hierarchy

 <(pre|p) class="code">
   <(div|span) class="codeblock">**
     <tt class="codetext">
       <font size="-1">*
         CODE
       </font>*
     </tt>
   </(div|span)>**
   <(div|span) class="embed-dl-code">
     <font size="-1">*
       <a>[download]</a>
     </font>*
   </(div|span)>
 </(pre|p)>

 *  = Not used if Large Code Font is enabled in Display nodelet.
 ** = Not used in Code section.

=head1 CREDITS

=over

=item Jon Allen

This script was inspired by and started from Jon Allen's L<AJAX perl
highlighter|http://perl.jonallen.info/projects/syntaxhighlighting>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

juster <jrcd83 @t gmail d0t com> on www.perlmonks.com

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2008 by Justin Davis.

Released under the Artistic License.

=cut
